# Process
any computer programe that is executing on your computer. google crome, 
vs code all of those are process. there are application having multiple
process runing. you can have many process runing together. google crome
slacks open in computer. cpu share workload to make execution of process

# Thread
a thread is what make a process. every process can have multiple
threads. which has atleat one thread. thread is simply part of
process. it is part of code which is executed in your computer.
Lot of time they will split of process into multiple threads
Multiple threads inside a process. and you always have atleast
one thread. Thread make a process and process is application
with a progrmae that runing on your computer.

# Artitecture of Modern Cpu
Most modern cpu have multiple core. 2-core, 4-core etc
number of core means number of process your computer can
executes. at exact same time. In a parallel. If you have
6-process you can process 6 piece of information per seconds or
ns, or micor second
6 process core than you can do 6 things at same time
Logical core, Physical core modern cpu intenl cpu
implemnts hyper threading. every single physical
computing core on your cpu broken into multiple
logical cores what that mean is one processing core
is actually capable of excuting two instructions at same time.
if cpu has high birth rating if you have 6-core you can do
12 operations. beacsue each physical core van be split into
two logical core which can execute operations at same time.

1 process can have more threads your cpu working
on all threads. as programer you can define how many 
thread you can

# concurency
- refers to multiple threads in your programe being executed one after
  another. one at a time so rather than being execute all threads say
  four thread in a programe happen exact same time you have to wait 
  for one thread to finish than execute another one
  what is the point of 4 threads if we wait for one to finsish?
  t1, t2, t3, t4
  Point of multiple threads is any point of time one of thread is
  not doing any works the cpu can imdediately switch over and sart
  working on other threads. eg downlaoding something from internet.
  waiting for file to wriiten to computers some thread and 
  this thread is responsible for saving users works. ideally user
  is able to use the programes. all file that is saving is being saved.
  if one thread saving the file another thread responsible for user
  interface for your application. if we didnot run your programe run
  concurenlty. multiple threads what happens is when you try to save the
  files no longer use user interface. because thread which is saving is waiting 
  to file to write to disk. you have to wait
  where as if you split your programe to multiple threads
  as soon as you hit the save waiting for something. i am going to
  switch over The UI threads. allow user to navigate to user interface.
  as soon as saving is done that thread is released it can going to do
  other operations it can do. 
  This is concurency - executing one thread at a time but process is keep
  switching between differnt threads.

# parrelliusum
- Multiple process and thread executed at excat same time. user interfcae thraed 
and file saving threads so we are runung a parallel programing we have multiple 
threads being executed excat same time. on multiple cpu core. multiple logical core.
if one logical core you cannot execute at a time. lot of advanatge of it




