# Global Interpreter Lock - Mutex
- this is sepecific to python
- this is the region we cannot create a parallel programe in python
- Interpreter is used by all of the threads in python process.
  all 4 thread you created as use exactly the same interpreter.
  now in other programing langiage this interprtere can use in
  parralel. can excess interpreter same time and run on logical
  cores. In Python this is not the case.
- Only one thread can use this Interpreter at a time.
  Interpreter is locked. so you can't have parallel programing in 
  pythons. limitation of python Interpreters. software related things
- what is objective of GIL
  simplicity, effiecncy, performnace of langugae.
  how python handle memeory and obejcts.

# one python process
say 4 threads these 4 threds share same obejcts in memory when
you create a programes. programe is given you allocation in your
RAM. your thread are sharing this Area. variable in thread 1 can access
modify change probelm is if multiple thread runing parallel they can
performs conflicting operations on same obejcts. in your computer memory
Thread 1 is adding elemnts in list, thread2 is deleting eleemnts in a list
or perforoming what is the type of operations. each thread get differnt obejcts
back result, incosistency in data. To fix this problems python Impelmented
GIL, This saying only one thread run at a time. Threre is other way to solve
This problems. Just like Lock on global Interpreter. You actually put a lock
and mutex on specific objects.
Other programing language lock placed on all of your shared regions
so i tried to acess the List thread 1 is looking to that List it can't let me
change i have to wait for Thread1 before i can acess. Now issue is we have tons of locks 
come into play every time acquied a lock release a locks this cost some time.
some performance so python actually does some implementaion where there is no
globals Interpreter Locks it cost time. slower performing interpreter
c-extension code runs behind pythons.

Another region og GIL, some ref_conuts of variables. something to keep
track of memory. garbage collectors. no refernce to this than remove from
memory. how many refernces to specific variables. if delete a refence
i delete a variables no longer using it. same problems if mutiple threads access
the same obejcts. The ref counts can be inconsistent so some point of time
you say i have ref_counts of 2 when you don't have ref_count of 2 because
when multiple threds can access from single obejcts. now biggest problem happens
you think no refences to the oebjcts. but actually still have. you delete 
objects in memory which still not to be used. why that are problems. 
why GIL exit 
